[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello my
[inaudible] graders Lilou here.
I am here in London
today with Joseph, hello.
>> Joseph Clough: Thank you
ever so much for having me here.
I'm so-I've been waiting
for this for so long now.
>> Lilou: You are the author-I'm
delighted you say that.
Oh my goodness.
You're in your 30's, you're
the author-you're 30 years old,
you just turned 30
and you're the author
of "Be Your Potential" and
you've been doing this work
since you were 18 really.
You're already a master hypnos,
how do you call that, PNL?
>> Joseph Clough:
NLP and hypnosis.
That's what I did.
That's what I do.
>> Lilou: That's so what you do
and I'm really looking forward
to talking about potential
because I feel it's,
this is what this life is
about, living our potential.
How big is this potential?
>> Joseph Clough: Well
it's really unlimited.
I mean we are unlimited
in what we can do
and what we can be
and what we can have.
It's usually about just bring
our attention to our potential.
When we do that, things start to
change so it's really unlimited.
>> Lilou: So when you
say put our attention
on our potential,
where, where is that?
Is there a location?
Is there?
>> Joseph Clough: Well
I'd really say that it's
about being conscious, conscious
living, being conscious
of what's happening right now
in this moment in our behaviors,
our beliefs, what kind
of mindsets we're having.
When we become conscious
of maybe some things not
[inaudible] or saying is wrong,
we can then make a change
and put our attention
where we're heading.
When we do that we start
to live our potential.
>> Lilou: So your book,
your story, how does,
at first, how did it started?
What is your background
before we go
into the different
techniques that you,
that you would like
to offer to us?
What, what's your story because
it's at a pretty young age
when you went into this.
>> Joseph Clough: Yeah, I mean
if we go even further back
from that, ever since
I was a child I used
to be so unconfident.
I used to blush; I was like
a professional blusher.
I'd get red all the time and I
really struggled with confidence
and low self-esteem, all the
way through up to my teens,
and then at 18 years old I
decided that something had
to change and only I
could make that change.
>> Lilou: And you
made the decision?
Nobody else in your
surroundings said something?
>> JC: Well my Dad
said well, he could see
that something wasn't
quite right
so then he said well why don't
you go in a hypnosis course,
which was very interesting,
it's very foreign to me
but he practiced it as a hobby,
and his intention was just
to get some head space, just
to take a week out and just see
where I'm heading in my life.
And at that point I
had to make a decision.
I had to decide that
something had to change
and only I could
make that change.
I had to instigate
the first steps.
So I took the leap, went on
this hypnosis course at 18
and I remember driving, it was
actually based in Scarborough
in England, it was quite
North, and I traveled up there
on this big journey and on the
way back I thought this is what
I want to do.
I realized that I can
connect to myself;
I can help people
connect with themselves
and really make powerful
changes.
It's always there and I knew
that because I had issues,
and I let go of big issues like
low self-esteem and blushing
and self-consciousness, but if
I can do it anyone can do it.
It's all there within us we
just have to make it happen.
>> Lilou: So that's like the
potential is already there
but what's blocking us then?
What was blocking you?
>> JC: I would probably put
it down to life's experiences.
You know life happens
to us, stuff happens,
and when it hits us we try to
react to the best that we can
but usually when life happens
or big stuff happens we're
under stress, so we make certain
decisions based on stress,
so we're not very clear
minded and because
of experience we then
start to get programmed
into having bad behaviors.
In fact, there's a
great hypnotherapist,
it was called Dr.
Milton Erickson.
Do you know him at all?
Well he ultimately said
that patients are patients
because they're out to
[inaudible] themselves.
They've been programmed
by life's experiences.
And even take it further
these days when you think
of like society or the
magazines, the news,
of how we should be, we've got
to look a certain way and it's
like we start to
live by experience
or by what people say
we should be like,
so we become disconnected.
So being our potential
is ultimate connecting
to a truest you that there is,
like the source of who you are,
your true beingness
and when you come
from that place you make
any change that you desire,
and that's when the
magic really happens.
>> Lilou: [inaudible]
when we're not confident
or when there's those
fears and these troubles,
we lose this confidence.
We don't know.
We can't just be.
There's so much panic and fears.
I remember losing my job
here in London years ago
and then finding myself
without any money.
The panic was so intense.
Isn't it?
>> JC: That's life
experience isn't it?
It just happens and
sometimes when we are
in stress we make certain
decisions about ourselves.
Say for example if I was
in London at that time
and I lost my job, I could
come out with the belief
that well obviously
I'm not good enough.
I'm not worthy.
I'm never going to
able to get a good job
or I can't have the
great relationship,
so through that stress we can
make decisions about ourselves
on a personal identity level.
So that's when issues can
really come into play and then
that can become a habit,
so it becomes-when you have
that consistent negative
thoughts
or beliefs system it becomes
ingrained in our neurology.
So through life experiences
we can get programmed
to have issues.
>> Lilou: So you're saying we're
programmed and there's a way
to deprogram ourselves
and recreate,
like some people say,
new Neuro pathways.
Is that what's happening?
Tell us what's actually on
the physical level happening.
What's happening?
>> JC: Sure, so if for example
we have an issue in our life.
Let's just say someone
had low self-esteem.
I don't feel worthy.
>> Lilou: Most of us I
guess on some levels.
[Laughing]
>> JC: I think it's probably
one of the biggest things
out there isn't it, where
we don't feel good enough,
we don't feel worthy and
we have this experience,
and we have that for a
continued amount of time.
Our thoughts become
trained that way and that's
where the Neuro networks
start to kind
of fire off the same
type of connections.
Even physically your body feels
low when you're depressed.
So once you start to make
a change and you can do
that by many ways
by just learning,
getting your unconscious mind
to learn new ways of being.
Let's consider this
for a second.
What is the intention
behind not feeling worthy
or not good enough?
Because I believe everything
that we have inside has
a positive intention
as to why we have it.
Now to me something like
not being good enough is
like a protection mechanism
because if I try to go
for that job and I fail
again or I get sacked again,
that's too much stress for
me to bear to it's better
to stay in my comfort zone.
So therefore, my body thinks,
my mind thinks it's
better to be where I am.
It's a safe way of being.
It's a safer way of being
than being out there.
So that's the reason as to why
the mind will keep these issues
on a mind, body, cell level.
But once we start
>> Lilou: Then intention
would be to protect.
What would be the intention
of-what is the positive
intention then behind that?
>> JC: I would say
it's protection.
It keeps us from going out there
and experiencing that again.
I mean if you think of like
saying another example would be
like a phobia.
Why do people have phobias?
It's a protection mechanism.
It's like the body thinks there
something to be scared there.
And you think of anxiety,
we think of all the things
we don't want to happen
because we try to-you could
say that preplan all things
which could go wrong so if it
does happen we've got a strategy
to deal with it, so everything
has a positive intention
but when you connect
to that intention,
let go of the behavior and come
up with a new way of being,
then we've really
started to make changes.
And when we do that that's
when the mind and body starts
to reconnect in a new way.
So have the thoughts, have the
beliefs, have the resources,
the behaviors and then over time
that becomes the new
constant way of being
and we're still being
safe as well.
I mean really think about it.
If you had absolute self-worth
and you felt absolutely
good enough
and you felt absolutely whole
and aligned, that's a safe way
of being in the world.
That's when we feel safe.
So when we change our thoughts
and we make those kinds
of changes then we're
going to be safer
than ever having that old issue.
So in doing that, there's real
safety but with happiness too.
>> Lilou: So in a situation like
losing a job what could be the,
the fears are there, the panic
starts, what could be the things
that we tell ourselves or the
work that you suggest to do in,
to open the potential
right there?
Because I guess it's
moment by moment,
in the moment when it happens.
As soon as possible to see
that this is happening,
this is going on, the
vicious circle is on.
>> JC: Ideally it would be
great to be able to consider
that in the moment but
it is very hard isn't it?
All this stuff is happening.
But the key is that most people
think that that is what life is.
We go for experiences; we
make these types of decisions.
If I was-when I was
writing the book
"Be Your Potential" I was just
writing it and this quote came
to my mind which I just
thought of and it was
"Rather being a product to
the life", say the product
of your experience, say the
product of your experience
in the job or losing a job
or a relationship going wrong
or an addiction, "Rather
than being a product
of life allow life to
be a product of you".
So everything you see in
your world becomes a product
of what you've created in
the most empowering way.
So when you make that decision,
the I'm going to be the cause
of my results, I'm going
to take responsibility,
rather pushing outside
my awareness
and say oh it was my bosses
fault, I didn't like that person
or I didn't, it was
my relationship
or it was my ex-partners fault
or it's the economy right now,
that's why I can't do
anything, rather pushing outside
of our awareness we've got
to take ownership over it.
We've got to take responsibility
and when we do that's
when change happens, because
now we're changing the direction
of the flow.
Rather than it just happening
to us we're allowing it to go
and be pushed out into
the world and reality.
So therefore we're in charge.
As soon as we make that decision
we're on the right step.
That's the first step
and then we've got to put
out attention where
it needs to be.
So what do we really want?
How could we learn from
this, which once learned,
the very nature of that
learning will allow me
to grow as a person.
So despite how bad
maybe that event was,
what can I really
learn from this?
And when I get the learning
from it, therefore I'm growing
as a person, that keeps me
safe and therefore I don't need
that limiting belief or that
conflict because I'm learning
and that means my body's
being safer than ever as well.
So it's really about evolving
ourselves and learning
from experiences so
we then grow from them
and get better because of it.
I mean just for another
example, my blushing back then,
my low self-esteem was
the best thing ever.
Now back at the time, terrible,
but because of that
situation happening and then
because of my learning
from it it's allowed me
to do what I do now.
If I didn't have it I wouldn't
be doing what I'm doing.
I'd be doing the job
that I really disliked
when I was 18 years old.
I would have just
been that person.
So I can be thankful
sometimes for the issues.
I mean maybe because when
you had your experience
with your job, it's
allowed you to be able
to share all this information
to millions around the world
and think about how many people
you've empowered personally.
Now that's amazing and therefore
we can sometimes feel a bit
grateful for having gone through
to pass onto others as well.
>> Lilou: How does
that link with the NLP,
Neuro Linguistic Programming?
Is that right, because
in England a lot
of people talk about it.
This is not really a topic
that I've covered that much.
Here and there a little bit but,
but all week here I mean
this topic keeps on coming
up so why are the British
so crazy about this?
Tell us. All around the world,
I know but here I remember
hearing the founder
of this didn't he
come to London?
Is he still alive?
>> JC: Yeah it was created by
two people, Richard Bandler
and John Grinder, and yeah
Richard Bandler is more
well-known I think.
He's got a lot more
stuff out there
at the moment although Grinder
does lots of great things
as well, but ultimately
they modeled people.
So by modeled I mean they
learned from the best
of the best, like they
learned from Gregory Bateson.
He was a great man and just
learning about information
about how the world is.
Also they learned
from Virginia Satir
who was a great psychotherapist
and they also learned
from Dr. Milton Erickson
who was a hypnotherapist.
And they realized that there's
many forms of therapeutic change
which we can learn from which
once maybe combined learn from
and kind of integrated can
allow us to make changes.
So NLP stands for Neuro
Linguistic Programming
and to me it's like well,
we're communicating back
to our own conscious mind.
I mean it's really another way.
If you could change
consciously you would right?
If you had an issue in your life
like anxiety or fears or doubts,
if you could consciously
change you would be able
to do it just like that.
But if you cannot it must mean
your unconscious mind is running
the issue.
So therefore NLP and things
like hypnosis or some forms
of psychology is working with
the unconscious minds as well.
So you gain the conscious
and the unconscious
and therefore you're being
connected as a whole and that's
where change begins
to happen as well.
>> Lilou: So there
is-you go backwards.
What is the technique
[inaudible] you actually rewind?
Isn't it something like
that in the process?
>> JC: There are a few processes
like that but personally
>> Lilou: You practice it yeah.
>> JC: It's about
changing the now.
Life's happened,
experiences happened
and we can always know
why things happen.
We can analyze so many things
until we're a professional
and why we have the problem,
but we still keep them.
So to me it's about
changing the now.
If you change your thoughts now,
if you change your beliefs now
by learning from it and
making those powerful changes,
by putting your thoughts to
the resources that you want
and learn in general, you're
going to change the now
and therefore your future.
And also in the now you
change how you see the past.
Because we can't
change the past,
we can only change our
relationship to it,
so by changing the now I think
that's the most powerful aspect
because the now becomes
the new, the new past
and therefore the new
direction where we're heading.
>> Lilou: Yeah because there
is only now, this eternal now.
I love it when people say that.
This eternal now because
it's happening all the time
but you say the present
moment, it's gone.
>> JC: That's right.
It's really the past isn't it?
I mean yeah, living in the now
is just the most powerful thing.
>> Lilou: So not thinking
of the future, not,
no setting goals anymore because
I know you mentioned this.
I saw on your website from
previous, setting goals
at the beginning of
the year but you're not
so much about that huh?
>> JC: No, here's
my view on things.
I love living in the
now but we also live
in a real time based world.
I mean today I had to
be here at some time.
If I was just living
in the moment I'm probably just
wandering around London still
because I'm just living
purely in the moment,
which would be wonderful but I'd
miss this wonderful opportunity.
So realistically we live in the
now but we also live in time.
So how can we develop a balance?
And I've personally
thought of a,
what I think is a powerful
way of getting both.
Now imagine that when you
wake up in the morning,
we can do the whole be
grateful because we know
when we're grateful we
set our emotional states,
but if you were to maybe
rehearse how you'd like your day
to go, so you see in your mind,
you paint wonderful pictures
of what you'd like to do,
which is like your future
so you're planning your future,
and in the evening you
review your day by learning.
So you think what can
I learn from my day?
So we're dealing with the past.
So we've got future
and past all covered
and then throughout the day,
in this time based world,
every hour or so we take two
or three minutes to just be
in the moment, to be in our
experience, to notice a space
between each other, to be able
to take in the wonderful colors
or the wonderful
sounds, and by doing
so we're covering the past,
the future and the now
and I think that's the
great way of living in time
but also living in the now.
So really preplanning your
future in the morning,
learning from your day and
then being in the moment,
therefore you've got
that wonderful flow.
>> Lilou: And how do you see
goals or dreams or desires
or things that you
want to manifest?
How do you view that
coming into our experience?
>> JC: Well to me goals are
suggestions to our mind and body
and the universe or
whatever it may be.
When we paint the wonderful
pictures of our desired outcomes
or our goal or our mission
or whatever it may be,
wonderful, perfect.
What I would suggest is though
when you have those goals
that we act upon them as well
because sometimes we get stuck
in wishful thinking like
now this might not resonate
with everyone because I know
a lot of people love the law
of attraction but sometimes I
do think-I mean I love the law
of attraction as well
but sometimes people forget
the law of taking action.
So even wishful think
of winning the lottery
or getting the dream job but
if you don't buy that ticket
or if you don't apply for jobs,
you're not going to get them.
So yes, allow wonderful
pictures in your mind
and really have goals of how
you'd like it, try it on because
when you try it on then
you feel aligned with it,
you know that there's
what I'm going to get
and you won't self-sabotage that
because you feel good about it.
But then knowing that
they're suggestions
to your unconscious mind
or the world or the reality
or the universe, we then take
inspired and massive action.
When things you feel
inspired to do, you're going
to make the change because you
align them, you're congruent
and you're really heading
in the right direction.
So yeah, have the goal but
follow it up with those steps.
Constant small steps will
then create big leaps.
Because you think about all
the people who've made massive
changes in the world and we may
see them as making big leaps,
big leaps from where they
were to where they are now
or whatever they did but behind
the surface there's these small
consistent steps they're
making every day, every week,
that allows them to grow.
So each step that we take
towards our goal will then be
the perceived leap in
other people's eyes.
So it is important that we
take massive, inspired action
and really make things
happen and have those goals.
That's great, that's the
direction you could say.
So the goal is like
the goal, the outcome
and then the action is the
direction and motivation
and the [inaudible]
that we're taking.
So again the both there's
going to be very powerful.
>> Lilou: Yeah and how,
how, is there a quicker path
or do you feel there is ways
that things really just
really come together quicker?
>> JC: I would say when
you're aligned to it.
When you're aligned
with your goal truly and
>> Lilou: What do you mean
by that so that we're clear
on knowing the same thing.
>> JC: Okay so, sometimes we
can self-sabotage our own goals.
For example let's
take a scenario.
Let's say someone wants to be
a pop star or in the media,
a movie star, and they think
well why would I want this?
Well it gives me money,
it gives me exposure,
it gives me all these wonderful
things but there's things
by getting that goal what
actually may not be that good.
They might lose privacy.
They might attract new
friends which are trying
to take advantage of
them and they'll know
that at a deep level but
[inaudible] thinking about it,
thinking of all the things
they want so they'll start
to maybe self-sabotage it then.
But once you try it on
and really consider it,
then you'll be truly aligned
because you are completely
at peace with the things
that you might lose.
I mean if, for example, back
then if I'd thought well
if I'm confident,
what might I lose?
Well I might lose
attention from people
because if I'm unconfident
people
in my life would go oh
Joseph, that's okay,
don't worry about it, and
that makes me feel good.
So always be prepared that
you might lose things.
Or you might get things which
may not be great but once you're
at peace with that then
you become truly aligned
and therefore you
attract into your world.
>> Lilou: Is there, is
there other like techniques
in the books that you cover?
What are the different-what
do you go into?
>> JC: Well in the book "Be
Your Potential" it's very much
processes [inaudible].
There's active steps
and within the book
as well I created some
audio, some hypnosis audio,
some coaching audio, so within
the book you can download all
that audio so you're reading it
and also you can
start to apply it.
So there's hypnosis there,
there's coaching there.
How you can change your
emotional state just like that.
How you can resolve
limiting beliefs.
So these are like very powerful
steps that you can apply
to yourself in book form,
in audio form and also
in written form, so you can
actually write some things
about that process.
>> Lilou: So the hypnosis you,
it's another again way to go
into the subconscious
and resurface?
You basically talk and then
the experience of hypnosis.
How does that solve problems?
>> JC: Well I would say
once again it connects
with your unconscious mind.
If you could change you would.
If you can't it must be a
block, a limiting belief,
some negative association
to with the issue
or a relationship [inaudible],
so going into a state
of hypnosis is a learning
stage, it's like mediation.
You get clarity,
you get connection,
so the hypnosis is very powerful
because you're becoming
consciously
and unconsciously aligned
and therefore you're going
to start making powerful changes
rather just being consciously
wanting what you want.
>> Lilou: So you would
have it on specific topic
or is there-what I'm
wondering is the process
within the hypnosis how can you
make it general for everybody?
Is there some, some
steps or some things
to first-like is the
subconscious mind has
compartments, you
know, different levels?
>> JC: Well it usually it goes
down to your conscious
intention.
Why am I going into trance?
What do I want from this?
So that's the direction you're
sending your unconscious mind.
Some of it I also do, I've
got like some hypnosis apps
so they're for every
issue you can think of.
It's like 50, 60,
70, 80 on there.
Custom ones which you can
choose what you like to listen
to so it could be about anxiety
or about being more relaxed,
and then those suggestions
are there to be helping you
for that specific topic.
But in general, or
like mediation as well,
it's wherever your intention is.
If your intention is to go into
trance to get more confidence,
you go into trance and your
unconscious mind will find
that connection.
It'll find that resource
for your need.
So it can be very
general and then it's
up to your conscious intention,
or it can be more specific
if you use, or listen to,
something more specific
for your issue or how
you'd like to be different.
>> Lilou: Fear, living
fearlessly.
That's like whoa, whoa, whoa
bring on the juice isn't it?
Because when there's no fears
it's just pure potential.
>> JC: That's it, living
beyond your comfort zone
and when you do you begin
to expand your comfort zone,
so therefore you go beyond that
and then you expand
your comfort zone,
so yeah definitely just
living courageously.
When you do that you kind of
really show yourself, the world
and everyone around you that we
are powerful and they see that
and they think they
are powerful as well.
They think that in their mind,
well I can do this as well.
So by living courageously,
powerfully in our potential,
we really show a
light to other people
and also it gives us more
examples of what else we can do.
Because if I can do this
then what else can I do?
Maybe I can go for this and if
I get that what else can I do?
And it's an ever growing
expansion of our potential.
Once you start feeding the
potential it starts to manifest
and get bigger and bigger.
Or not manifests and get bigger
but it becomes unleashed.
It becomes unleashed
and you begin
to see more it around
in your world.
>> Lilou: And to really
know that these are,
this is the direction
you want to take
versus another do you
go also into intuition
or how do you make decisions?
Because I see how many
No's it requires to be able
to say a Yes you know in
life and sometimes we have
to make those tough choices.
Right or left.
>> JC: That's right and
that is life isn't it?
We have many opportunities to
say yes or no or do this or do
that but I go by, I sound
like I'm repeating
myself a small bit,
but once you become consciously
and unconsciously aligned-think
of-obviously we have our
conscious mind and we
have our unconscious mind,
our biological body runs a
[inaudible] and flat response,
the healing of the body, it runs
on habits, our belief systems,
it runs on memories,
so very powerful.
Once we become aligned
consciously or connected
with our conscious mind and
unconscious mind become aligned
with the outside world as well.
The more you put, more
intention and attention you put
on the inside or [inaudible]
you then change the
outside universe.
So by being more connected
with yourself you make
more powerful decisions
and it feels right.
You become naturally
more intuitive
because you're sensing
more about the world.
You're-rather just consciously,
I mean if you can imagine
that I'm just consciously
looking at reality like this,
now I'm seeing it as a whole
because I'm consciously
and unconsciously connected, so
therefore I can pick up small,
different other aspects
I may have been deleting,
but now I'm taking it in and
I'm seeing if it resonates
or it doesn't resonate on a
heart level, on a brain level
and a biological level.
We're really in tune
with where we're headed.
>> Lilou: What are you
looking at these days?
How is all this evolving
since you're been doing this
for quite a while and your
young and fresh and out there?
>> JC: Thank you.
So what am I?
>> Lilou: What are you
up to or what are some,
what are you working on or how
this, you know how did it evolve
to where you're now at?
>> JC: Okay so I made a
conscious decision based
on my connection
with myself to share.
So I went on a mission
to, to create free,
wonderful-like this
wonderful video now
and all your other videos,
it's about sharing information,
helping people, connecting
people.
So I made a decision very
similar to that and I chose
to create over 100 hours
of free hypnosis, coaching,
there's like an eight hour
confidence program all
for free online.
So it's all for free online.
My apps, my podcasts,
my websites all for free
to download and listen to.
No signup, it's just yours.
All you've got to do is click,
download and that's that.
So my mission has been to
really just help as many people
as possible, to put
as much out there,
so I'm doing a weekly video,
a weekly audio all for free
and that's allowing people
to feel more connected.
And they're sharing this
information which is beautiful
because when you do
something because you want
to help, people notice that.
They get your energy.
We were talking about this
before the video won't we?
About how as you're doing
what you're doing people want
to help you, they want
to assist your mission
and connecting authors
or speakers
and how you can enlarge your
audience because it's wonderful,
quality content and you're
doing it from the place
of wanting to help people.
So that was very much
similar in my mission
and that's just transformed
things.
At the moment I'm
so grateful of this,
100,000 downloads every
month and it's getting
over 2 million downloads
to date and we're getting
over 100,000 downloads
every month just
on the podcasts,
let alone the apps.
So we're really pushing a
lot of information out there
and that's my real mission.
>> Lilou: Because I saw you
were, you were number one
of the [inaudible] House
authors of your list,
kind of in your publishing.
How do you get there?
Is it, is it, did you condition
yourself to it or is it kind
of just happened
very quickly for you
and you were surprised even?
>> JC: It's about
hustling sometimes.
You've got to take that action.
You've got to do things.
You've got to make
things happen.
I mean it is a journey.
I've failed or failed many times
but I've learned
from those and grown.
There's mistakes that I've made
and I think well how
can I improve from this?
How can I learn from it and
connect with more people?
So really it has been
about taking action
and doing what you love.
When you do what you love
you will become more aligned
with everything around you
and those opportunities begin
to become apparent
in your reality.
So I would say taking action
and just being true to yourself.
When you're connected
to yourself
and where you're heading and
you just want to share love,
and I'll say that is a key
one, love, love for self,
love for others, then even
like love for your hobby,
love for your business,
love for your relationship,
love for your health,
all these things.
When you come from that place
you'll, things become aligned.
You are aligned.
You are connected with
who you are as a person
and all those avenues
and opportunities.
So yeah there's learning
there, there's some kind
of dead ends along the way
which you kind of come back
and then go off again, but
it's all about progression
and life's just simply
a journey like that.
>> Lilou: Is there other topics?
Are you thinking of doing some
more books or other things?
Because once we start, it's for
sure you're probably [inaudible]
like where's the second one?
>> JC: Yes, I have
decided I would
like another, like
to write a book.
I haven't actually told
anyone about the subject yet
but this is telling
you and everyone else.
My intention is to
write a book on love.
Love for life, love for
self, love for others,
love what you do because
as I said when you come
from that place there's no fear.
There's no scarcity.
There's no doubts.
And by love I don't mean
just like out there love,
I just mean being the core
source of who you are,
which is potential, which
is being courageous,
which is living beyond
your comfort zone.
When you come from that
place you are connected
and you make changes.
So I think that feels
right for me at the moment
to start writing that.
I've been very busy running
trainings and seminars
and producing all this free
audio and video but I am going
to put some time aside now to
start writing a new, a new book.
>> Lilou: The love
is so essential
because whatever we're doing if
we're not loving and accepting
who we are, but really loving,
just having those
loving thoughts,
it's hard to really
live that potential.
>> JC: That's right.
It's so true.
I mean
>> Lilou: I feel like
it rewires by itself.
Like how do you explain then
that people like me even
if I haven't done NLP or
hypnosis I was able to let go
of those past way of beings.
Is it because through
repetition maybe
or those interviews
around the world?
[Laughing]
>> JC: I'm sure you pick
up a lot of information
which is resonating with
your soul and your body
but I would really say
just being in the moment
and having love for life you're
communicating with your body,
because you know
that if you have
that negative thought your body
feels that negative thought.
You know that if you have
negative thoughts it's going
to change how you
react in the future
because you think I
don't want this to happen
and you come out of sync.
But when you come from love or
fill in the blank or something
like maybe contentment,
peace, it's all the same;
it's all the same
ingredients there.
When you come from that
place you change how you see
your past.
You change how your physical
body feels and how it reacts,
how it ages, how it grows, how
it looks, how all these things
and we'll say when you
have love for your future
and what you do right now,
you make transformations
and it's just really
that simple.
Put your attention
there, let it grow
and things will start to change.
It happens.
>> Lilou: Do you, do you
go at all into the fact
that as we change our
environment change,
people around us change?
Did you notice that in your
life, the transformation
of others just because
you are there
or because you have
done what you have done
and experienced your potential?
>> JC: Definitely.
When you make that conscious
decision that something is going
to be changed or you
want to do something,
then you'll bring more
people into your life
which are resonate with that.
You begin to attract them
because they're your-think
of if you start to make
powerful changes, your qualities
of yourself are just being
shone out into the world,
the qualities of who you are
and what you do and how you act
and how you give off that
energy, and in turn it's
like people see that and
think wow, I'm like that too
or I want to be like that.
So you start to attract
the people
in alignment of who you are.
But if you are on the negative
side and you only see the bad
in people or the bad in the
world, that's all you're going
to see, that's all
you're going to attract.
So definitely when you
start to make changes
in yourself you bring
more into your life.
I mean when you make change
in yourself you're letting go
of stuff, the old things,
so therefore there's space
for new things to come in,
and those new things coming
in will be based on your present
thoughts, your present feelings
and that's, because
that's one of happiness,
you bring in that happiness.
>> Lilou: You're 30 years
old, you just turned 30,
so you're the young generation,
you're the newbies coming up.
I mean you're the fresh blood.
What do you feel is different
from the other generations
like the Dr. Wayne
Dyer's and all of that?
What do you bring in or how
do you feel it's different?
>> JC: Great question.
It's one really maybe difficult
to answer but I would say
that I think it's very similar
but sometimes maybe-the
great thing
about people they're
all individuals
so therefore they relate to
different other individuals.
So it may be being a bit
younger, I may, I don't know
because a lot of people coming
to my seminars in their 60's
and 70's so they like
to see that as well.
So it's not about
necessarily about age
but it's something different.
Maybe a new insight and new
thoughts, a new way of being
and the collective of the
young, the old, the middle,
the [inaudible], I mean
age doesn't matter anyway
but I think it just maybe
gives a new dimension
or a different spin
on things maybe.
I think that could be it.
>> Lilou: I think, I do think
we bring a certain freshness
and just some things that
we were born into already
like when I wasn't born with the
internet but look at kids now,
I mean they pick up the
internet right away.
We were born into these
conversations more or less.
Your father your parents were.
It seems, it seems
you have been growing
with fairly open parents huh?
>> JC: Yes I mean my
parents have been amazing.
They've allowed me
to be who I am really
so I'm very thankful for that.
But as you were saying
about the internet as well,
like right now you can
download so many podcasts,
you can watch these
wonderful videos,
you can do all these
things at an instant.
It's all out there where back in
the past we'd have to maybe go
to the library or do mail
ordering for books and,
I was going to say CD's but
even like tapes even far back
or records, whatever it may be
but now the digital
age is allowing us
to be more connected more
quickly, more freely,
more openly and therefore
we're educating.
I mean the amount of times where
people in their late teens,
people at college, university,
who email me saying I've really
made some powerful changes,
it's really kind of fantastic
because they just found it.
They had an issue and
thought well how can I get an
answer here?
So they go online because we're
all connected that way now,
things are there in an instant
when you can buy a hypnosis
download or a coaching audio
or a podcast or watch
a video within seconds.
So it's just there, we've just
got to put our attention to it.
>> Lilou: And if you [inaudible]
we're part of this generation,
for us it's about sharing freely
you know like possibly I've put
over 2000 videos, maybe
2500 videos online,
where does this come from?
I think it's part of our
generation, you know,
just wanting to share and
wanting to spread this huh?
Because it seems like we
really have this in common
and I'm sure a lot
of other ones.
>> JC: Definitely.
I think because there are
ways of sharing so easy now,
which are for free like YouTube,
is free or on the podcast
or even I invest money
to share things for free.
So it's actually at my cost I
mean even if in time or expense
of video cameras and
things like that, hotels,
it's very much an investment
that we're making or a cost
to us but we see
it as an investment
because the more people
who are happy in the world,
wouldn't that be
a wonderful thing?
That's really why isn't it?
We want people to live and love
life more than ever before.
To get meaning out of life
and it gives me meaning.
I mean if you think for
me the meaning of life is
to live a life of meaning.
When we live meaningfully
then we start to make changes
and there's my meaning.
I just want to help people,
to share this information
but I have learned over the
years, my own experiences
because I still have issues.
I'm not one of these people
who say oh, I'm free of issues.
I'm always working on myself.
I know that there's
some stumbling blocks
which I'm always working on
but I'm getting over them.
I'm learning all the time.
I'm growing as a person.
I'm a real person and I want
to share those learning's
with those who have been
in that situation who want
to be able to get help.
>> Lilou: And that's also
part of this new generation.
I do feel that way, that
we are not afraid to say
and be our authentic self
and say okay this is,
I made a boo boo or this is
where it's sitting, you know,
the shit is hitting
the fan there.
But this is part of you know
the guru and the teacher
out there just knowing it all
is not what resonates with me.
>> JC: Not at all.
There's something that I haven't
liked about some of the industry
over the previous years, over
the last ten years and my first,
because I've been doing
this like 12 years
so when I was coming into
this there are these gurus
and we put them up
there and it's
like well how can we ever be
like that because they are gurus
and everything but really
they're just normal people
who have an insight, or maybe
have a process or a philosophy
or an idea that which
ones thought
about makes changes in others.
And when people realize
that we're real people
and we're resolving things as
we go they can connect with that
because we're the same, and
I think that's very resonate
to people to realize
that we're not different.
We can never be like that person
because they're amazing
at what they do.
Anyone can do anything I
think and once we're more real
and open as to who we are
as a person our own mistakes
or our own issues and it just
makes them be able to see a way
of changing as well because
they know that we've been there,
they know we've been
there and got over it
so they can do it as well.
So I like to think we're an
example of how people can change
because we've been
there as well.
>> Lilou: Beautiful Joseph.
I really enjoyed
this conversation.
>> JC: Like I've said it's been
over a year or so missing kind
of schedules because I've
been around the world,
you've been around the world
and this one day everything
became in alignment.
Consciously, unconsciously
in the world all in alignment
and I'm so thankful for
you to allow me to be here
and to connect with you.
>> Lilou: Delicious pleasure.
Thank you, thank you my
beautiful [inaudible] readers
for watching this video.
Your book, "Be Your Potential"
and I look forward meeting
you again around the world.
Thank you Joseph and
thank you to you.
Big kisses wherever you are.
[ Music ]